<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_hhd_hng_ndb">
    <title>Structure of httpdicom project</title>
    <body>
        <p>httpdicom is a specialization of GCD httpserver for DICOM web distributed operations.</p>
        <p>In Objective-C, it uses "RS", a basic restfull asynchronical simplified version of <xref href="https://github.com/swisspol/GCDWebServer" format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
        <ul id="ul_wh3_hkl_ndb">
            <li>RS code is found within the project in /RS. </li>
            <li>/DRS (Dicom Restfull Server) contains the specialization. </li>
            <li>Inits and service handler loading process is found in /DRS/DRS.h</li>
            <li>handlers code is subdivided in corresponing categories /DRS/DRS+...</li>
        </ul>
        <section id="section_a3p_v5l_ndb">
            <title>Services</title>
            <p>Some services are local. They don't inclue the parameter pacs in the request.</p>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_prw_x5l_ndb">
                   <li>badpath</li>
                   <li>trace</li>
                   <li>/echo: verification of accesibility</li>
                   <li>/custodian/pacs/acl</li>
                   <li>/pacs/service/workitem (asociado a cero o más code)</li>
                   <li>/pacs/procedure/scheme+code</li>
                   <li>/scheme/code</li>
                   <li>/mwlitem: creation of DICOM CDA orders and modality worklist items</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <p/>
        <section id="section_bds_gtw_hfb">
            <p>Other services are based on filters on specific attributes of instances. These
                services  run local and reenter into the APath service, which scope is the complete
                federation of pacs. That is, the request to the APath service of a node of the
                federation may be forwarded to the APath of  another node for execution. Selection
                services include:</p>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_cds_gtw_hfb">
                    <li>/qido</li>
                    <li>/datatables</li>
                    <li>/weasis </li>
                    <li>/cornerstone</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_xs2_lvf_3fb">
            <title>APath</title>
            <p>Manages an NSOperationQueue, to obtain in parallel the information coming from pcs
                and local pacs.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_bk5_gtw_hfb">
            <p>Some services can reach any of the pacs of the federation throughout a pcs or an
                intercomunication of two pcs. This is not like a distributed task to various pcs.
                The task is received by one pcs and executed by one pcs. The first pcs acts as a
                smart proxy, using the parameter pacs to reach the other one.</p>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_ck5_gtw_hfb">
                    <li>wado</li>
                    <li>wadors / dicom.zip</li>
                    <li>/capsule <ul id="ul_ek5_gtw_hfb">
                            <li>CDA encapsulated</li>
                            <li>PDF encapsulated</li>
                            <li>...</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>pdf (enclose pdf reports)</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_bfp_jkw_hfb">
            <title>to integrate later</title>
            <p/>
            <p>
                <ul>
                    <li>For each service, httpdicom works as a proxy multiplexer, requesting
                        information from one or more of many PACS and consolidating the results when
                        they come from more than a source. To do so, services work asynchronously,
                        and rely on an operation queue which dispatches queries concurrently on many
                        PACS. We use a generic subclass of NSOperation
                        (/DRS/DRSOperations/DRSOperation) and subclass it with all the specifics of
                        each operation (found in /DRS/DRSOperations/DRSOperation/...). Each
                            service:<ul id="ul_vj4_k4l_ndb">
                            <li>parses and validates parameters</li>
                            <li>lists the sources of information to be queried</li>
                            <li>opens an NSOperationQueue</li>
                            <li>loops the list to: <ul id="ul_c2z_3hn_ndb">
                                    <li>add and initialize an operation in the NSOperationQueue</li>
                                    <li>resume it</li>
                                </ul>
                            </li>
                            <li>monitors the operation queue <ul id="ul_ujb_hkn_ndb">
                                    <li>asks for results</li>
                                    <li>cancels when all results were received (that is when neither
                                        http nor bash return chunked responses).</li>
                                </ul>
                            </li>
                            <li>classifies responses</li>
                            <li>formats consolidated response</li>
                            <li>closes the NSOperationQueue</li>
                        </ul>
                    </li>
                    <li>The NSOperation formats the task specifically for the pacs and then starts
                        the operation. There are two possible formats: (a) asynchronous http
                        operations and (b) bash/sql operations. Each operation always keeps all the
                        context necessary so that it can return asynchronously a complete answer
                        from the pacs when it is asked for the results. <ul id="ul_cpl_m3n_ndb">
                            <li>An asynchronous http operation uses objective-c framework
                                NSURLSession dataTaskWithRequest:completionHandler: This allows for
                                different cache policy and timeout depending on the operation type
                                and source of information. The completion handler finalizes NSData,
                                NSURLResponse and NSError objects. A delegate can be set up in
                                further version for handling authentication challenges. </li>
                            <li>A bash/sql operation is synchronous in nature, but performed from a
                                task framework, which allows to control it.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
